### Tópico T22 (data limite: **01/11/2020 23h59min59s**

#### Assunto

- Orientação a Objetos: praticando
  - A prática da orientação a objetos pressupõe um "método", ou estratégia de "como" identificar
  objetos, relacionamentos, distribuir responsabilidades entre eles e outros. Para iniciar, segue um
  excerto do livro _The Craft of Windows 95 Interface Design_. Este livro, de autoria de Alex Calvo, foi publicado há um
  bocado de tempo pela Springer-Verlag, em 1996. O excerto é interessante para observar um aspecto que já havíamos abordado anteriormente:
  a distinção entre orientação a objetos e dados. A seção é _Object-Oriented Design_, páginas 7 e 8,
  empregada no contexto do projeto de interfaces. Vamos ao excerto:
  
_Once you thoroughly understand the problem the software is to ad-
dress, the interface design process should begin by dividing the
things that go into solving that problem into two logical groups:
objects (nouns) and tasks (verbs). Objects are the things that the
program lets you work with: a database of customers, a column of
numbers, a hard disk. Tasks are the things that the program lets you
do to those objects: look up a customer, add some numbers, de-
fragment a hard drive. Searching for the optimal way to visually
present these two items is the key to good interface design._

_Begin by making a list of every word that pops into your head with
respect to the program you are designing. Sort your list into these
two groups (objects and tasks) as best you can. Then look for the
relationships and similarities between objects and how they fit to-
gether. If you find lots of overlap between objects, try combining
them into one. For example, imagine that you are designing an ap-
plication for a law firm. Two of the objects in your list are Clients
and Friends. Because clients may also be friends and vice versa,
consider combining these two objects into one object called Ad-
dress Book, especially if they share many of the same database
fields. Each entry in Address Book could then have a check box
indicating whether they are a friend. This would provide the user
with a simpler paradigm and at the same time allow for a cleaner
interface._

_If, on the other hand, you have listed too many compound objects
(objects comprised of smaller objects), consider breaking them
down into their various components. For example, imagine that
one of your interface objects, Contracts, is too general. Depending
on the particular law firm, it may be more effective to split this into
two parts, Government Contracts and Business Contracts, espe-
cially if they have nothing to do with each other and have few
similarities._

_As your list of objects becomes more and more refined, so should
your list of tasks that are associated with each object. For example,
our Address Book object should be able to perform the following
tasks: Add, Delete, Find, Print, and so on. These tasks can later be
transformed into buttons and menu items, providing the user with a
means to execute his or her commands._

_By understanding the problem and being able to map it out into
these two groups, half the battle is already won. Looking at the
problem in this manner will definitely improve your design capa-
bilities and allow you to see things more clearly. Because people
naturally tend to think of objects using a noun/verb relationship,
attempting to model your interface in a more data-centric fashion
will help you lay the groundwork for an easy to use application._


#### Atividade A23:

1. É importante perceber três itens no texto acima, dentre outros. Vamos 
destacar três relevantes para nós: (a) há um método, uma proposta de 
como realizar _object-oriented design_; e (b) _object-oriented design_
pode ser empregado (conceitos) no projeto de interface, dentre muitos outros 
cenários (estamos particularmente interessados, na disciplina, em 
programação orientada a objetos, ou seja, _software_ que seja orientado
a objetos; e (c) o autor não é tão claro acerca da separação entre 
orientação a objetos e dados, de fato, alguns podem argumentar que o 
texto sugere uma "interseção" não nula. 

#### Artefatos

1. Nenhum artefato "material" é esperado desta atividade. Releia o excerto
para certificar-se que percebe os três itens destacados acima no texto. 
